GoldWave Revision History
-------------------------

v4.26
-----
	Added rate setting to batch conversion.
	Added information message when opening .CDA files.
	Added log window for CD extraction to locate problems.
	Improved ID3 tag preservation across edits.
	Added code to preserve skipped header for File Types settings.
	Fixed bugs: edit box focus in evaluator, drop marker/cue shortcut
		keystrokes when monitor enabled, main window enabled after
		split, resampling error, blocked debug log message.

v4.25
-----
	Added settings to Mark Silence Cue Point feature.
	Added Controls under Options menu and Device Controls under Window
	  Companion menu to make them easier to find.
	Added new licensing system for faster, automated, online orders.
	Added support for 24 bit AIFF files.
	Fixed bugs: Evaluator focus, CD device select empty track.

v4.24
-----
	Added cue point time stamp to level activated recording.
	Added automatic cue points to CD audio extraction tool to
	  mark tracks.
	Increased batch conversion file list size.
	Increased new file length limit.
	Refined MP3 encoder search code.
	Added sgn() function to Evaluator.
	Fixed bugs: memory problem with Time warp and Pitch effects,
	  pop/click filter tail, extra button for joystick option.

v4.23
-----
	Changed contact information to GoldWave Inc.
	Added more Vorbis support and created new module.
	Added internal option to fully open VBR MP3 files.
	Added room for one more recording volume control.
	Added code to find MP3 encoder if not copied to System folder.
	Improved volume shape smoothness.

v4.22
-----
	Revised German version.
	Added confirmation message when deleting presets.
	Added Ctrl+J key to jump start marker to cue point.
	Fixed marker dropping keys.

v4.21
-----
	Added code to try to avoid problem where Microsoft's multimedia
	  streaming interface uses incorrect format for MPEG files.
	Changed ID3 tag for author in MP3 files.
	Removed extended padding header from ID3 tag for better
	  compatibility with older software.
	Added Ctrl+Q key to drop cue points while recording or playing.
	Added new colour graphs.
	Added Joystick control option under Device Properties.
	Fixed evaluator tool using waveX terms.
	Fixed time warp when using small change factors.

v4.20
-----
	German version.
	Added more Vorbis attributes.
	Fixed cue points ordering for large files.

v4.19
-----
	Changed fast forward and rewind to use original playback region.
	Fixed Copy to.

v4.18
-----
	Added Ogg Vorbis support to batch converter.
	Added help information for Vorbis codec.

v4.17
-----
	Upgraded to Borland C++Builder 5.
	Improved CD audio extraction support under NT and 2000.
	Added ability to continue CD extraction when synchronization lost.
	Set GoldWave clipboard as default.
	Added option to open ASF files missing length information.
	Added Ogg Vorbis file support through new Common Audio Layer.
	Fixed bugs: noise gate, mpeg overflow, pops in file conversion,
	  file conversion exception, expand/compress, snap to zero-crossing
	  exception, raw filename extension, stereo noise reduction with
	  clipboard.

v4.16
-----
	Fixed Volume Properties incompatibility with some sound cards.

v4.15
-----
	Added Batch conversion feature.
	Added Pop/Click filter effect.
	Added Split file button to Cue points tool.
	Added bitrate to status bar for MP3 files.
	Added more MP3 bitrate options under Save as.
	Improved graph refresh rate during disk access.
	Added SPTI support for CD audio extraction under NT.
	Fixed bugs: dragging one marker beyond the other gives negative
	  range, [ and ] keys not working while monitoring, unbounded
	  recording inconsistencies, missing temporary folder, save as,
	  playback buffering, etc.

v4.12
-----
	Created self-installing program.
	Changed Device Controls Graph Properties to show a list of graphs.
	Added X-Y Mode graph.
	Synchronized left and right graphs.
	Added Unbounded option to Record Properties so file storage
	  can be allocated dynamically.
	Changed Countdown timer to day/time timer.
	Improved Volume Properties compatibility.
	Added scrolling during playback when Scroll Lock key on.
	Added RMS setting to Volume Maximize command.
	Changed installation notice.
	Removed dependency on DDRAW.DLL.
	Added limited ID3v2 3.0 tag support.
	Changed MPEG attributes to show sampling rates.
	Fixed bugs: end-of-file noise in some compressed formats,
	  use average in noise reduction, interpolate, file size.

v4.11
-----
	Fixed graph border in Device Controls window.

v4.10
-----
	Added tooltips to Device Controls buttons.
	Changed scroll bars to faders in Device Controls.
	Changed LED meters to gradient colours and added limit LED.
	Added two new realtime spectrum graph types to Graph properties.
	Added right-click context menu for selecting graph.
	Added fade time setting to Graph properties.
	Changed rewind and fast forward to work without playing first.
	Added recording Volume tab to Device Controls properties.
	Added Information command to File menu.
	Added Previous zoom command to View menu.
	Added Initial zoom setting to Window options.
	Added right-click context menu for cue points.
	Added Store and Recall commands to Marker submenu.
	Added 24 bit file support.
	Added floating point WAV file support.
	Added support for Windows Media audio compression in WAV files.
	Added support for BladeEnc MPEG layer 3 encoder.
	Added transparent support for all audio related formats recognized
	  by the operating system, including movies: MOV, AVI, MPG, ASF
	  (requires DirectX Media).
	Removed Audio extraction submenu (AVI extraction not necessary).
	Added Skip bytes setting to File types.
	Added Use clipboard option to Noise reduction.
	Added Expand/Compress effect.
	Added status bar range update when dragging a marker.
	Changed status bar range to show selection length.
	Added y-axis number colour setting.
	Updated help and manual.
	Converted images and figures for manual.
	Fixed bugs: Borland/Microsoft floating point exception, channel
	  mixing and pasting, lost first sample in right channel paste,
	  drop marker commands, copy to, pan, resample, etc.

v4.04
-----
	German demonstration version.

v4.03
-----
	German version (http://www.goldwave.de).
	Fixed bugs: stereo text files, converting stereo to mono with right
	  channel selected, insert silence in one channel, MPEG 2.5, resample
	  enabling, remove vocals save as mono, 12 bit unsigned save.

v4.02
-----
	Added OS Association to File Types option.
	Improved CD extraction "fix defects" processing.
	Revised manual and created HTML text version.
	Added more help, including a "Getting Started" section.
	Added some presets and expressions.
	Improved handling of invalid WAV files.
	Fixed bugs: zero-crossing, minimized Device Controls window,
	  looping, axis 'k' numbering, positioning in full duplex,
	  CD track end time, VOC conversions, time warp, etc.

v4.01
-----
	Added Select all command to Edit menu.
	Added Snap to zero-crossing to Marker submenu.
	Created Save as, Select all, Rewind, Fast, and Pause buttons
	  for tool bar configuration list.
	Added Custom format buttons in Save as dialog.
	Added analysis graphs and time bar to Parametric EQ.
	Added function key support to Device Controls window.
	Clicking on balance or speed scroll bar icon resets bar to default.
	Added Finish to Device Controls Play Properties user play options.
	Increased LED meter hold time maximum.
	Selected initial preferred devices from Audio Properties.
	Changed CD extraction tool to show device list before requesting
	  an audio CD.
	Added new CD extraction read technique and added support for
	  more drives.
	Saved CD extraction options and settings.
	Status bar time and range format settings saved.
	Added Copy all command to cue point tool to copy all points to
	  the clipboard in text format.
	Added MP3 file support to open raw MPEG layer 3 compressed files.
	Fixed bugs: File | Close, ASCII floating point file, help
	  links, File Format help button, File Types caption, etc.

v4.00
-----
	Upgraded to Borland C++ 5.02.
	Redesigned all dialogs for improved ease of use.
	Removed all BWCC32.DLL controls.
	Added up/down controls to some dialogs.
	Added scroll bar controls to some dialogs.
	Used property sheet for expanded Device Controls setup.
	Added several windowing functions for spectral displays.
	Added View option for user play button.
	Added LED hold feature and time setting.
	Added Show axis option to draw axes on oscilloscopes.
	Added safety key, Mix, cache, and undo options for Recording
	Added Estimate option for device positioning.
	Added Microsoft Sound Mapper device selection.
	Changed balance scroll bar image to indicate left, center, or
	  right balance setting.
	Changed balance and speed scroll bar paging to round to nearest
	  level.
	Added oscilloscope display when dragging start/finish markers.
	Added new style dockable controls bars.
	Added Tool bar customization command to Options menu.
	Added many new tool bar buttons, selectable under new tool bar
	  configuration command.
	Added submenu to Window menu to hide/show control bars and
	  status bars.
	Improved "New Sound" selection dialog and added buttons for
	  common settings.
	Added Replace command to Edit menu.
	Added Copy to command to Edit menu.
	Added Marker submenu to Edit menu.
	Added Set command to numerically set or align markers.
	Added Drop start/finish commands to move marker to current
	  playback position (keyboard '[' and ']').
	Improved Noise gate effect with attack and anticipation settings.
	Added Noise reduction effect with three reduction modes: shape,
	  current, and average.
	Improved range and accuracy of all filters.
	Added 7-band graphic equalizer, with presets.
	Enhanced Doppler effect to allow changes to only one channel.
	Added Time warp effect with three different algorithms, two of
	  which allow speed/tempo changes without changing pitch.
	Moved Speed effect under Time warp effect.
	Replaced Transpose with Pitch effect and added option to change
	  pitch without changing tempo.
	Enhanced transpose/pitch effect to change selection instead
	  of entire file.
	Enhanced Maximize effect to show rms level and maximum
	  level/position and to specify new level.
	Create stereo effects submenu.
	Moved Pan and Exchange to stereo effects submenu.
	Added Remove vocals effect to stereo submenu.
	Added Audio extraction submenu to Tool menu.
	Created AVI audio extration tool.
	Created CD audio extration tool for SCSI CD-ROM drives.
	Added vertical zoom in/out and amplitude axis.
	Added several new zoom commands and keystrokes: Zoom in, Zoom out,
	  Vertical zoom all, Vertical zoom in, Vertical zoom out.
	Added options to configure units for time and amplitude axis.
	Added drag-and-drop cue point positioning.
	Improved File Format selection dialog to support many new formats.
	Increased recently used file history list size.
	Added customizable file extensions for associating a format to a
	  given extension.
	Added customized extensions to Open dialog "Files of type" list.
	New file formats supported: MPEG layer 3 wave codec, ASCII integer,
	  ASCII float, ISDN A-law, IEEE single precision, 32-bit.
	Updated help file.
	Fixed bugs: compressed file handling, inverted A-law, looping,
	  random fpe.


v3.24
-----
	Upgraded to OWL 5.0 and Borland C++ 5.0.
	Added tool tips.
	Change dialogs and status bar to use normal font.
	Added better time entry boxes (HH:MM:SS.TTT).
	Added Speed effect.
	Added A-Law support to VOC files.
	Added command line option to play file.
	Added many new expressions to Expression Evaluator.
	Limited "Unselected" playback to view, when possible.
	Improved looping of small sections.
	Added uncached direct-to-disk recording.
	Added cue point markers in Sound window.
	Fixed bugs: Saving in raw/vox format, modified status, playback
	  lock, clipboard, graph drawing.

v3.23
-----
	Changed buttons to use system colours.
	Preset name stored.
	Fixed bugs: Finish marker move during recording, 8-bit rounding
	  error on evaluator, command line, modified status/save enable.

v3.22
-----
	Added option to use private clipboard or Windows clipboard to
	  work around problems with unreliable Windows 95 clipboard.
	Added support for MIDI Sample Dump SDS files.
	Added scrollbar tracking when zoomed in.
	Added keystrokes for moving start/finish markers and
	  opening files.
	Reduced processor usage.
	Fixed bugs: Special character filenames, Countdown timer, Save
	  monitor option, File options on NT, Close and Maximize, Help.

v3.21
-----
	Modified code to use old style Open/Save dialogs for Windows NT.
	Added autoscroll when dragging start or finish marker outside
	  view when zoomed in.
	Increased number of Parametric EQ bands to 30.
	Added automatic frame rate limiter for oscilloscopes to reduce
	  CPU load.
	Fixed bugs: Cleared coordinates, Path dialog.


v3.20
-----
	Converted code to 32-bit flat address model.
	Added Paste new command to Edit menu.
	Added a configurable parametric equalizer with 10 bands and a
	  graphical interface with logarithmic scales.
	Added easy to use dynamic lowpass, highpass, bandpass and
	  bandstop filters.
	Added long filename support and new Open/Save dialogs.
	Added file support for Dialogic VOX, Sample Vision SMP,
	  DiamondWare DWD, and old style Apple AIFF.
	Added special Java/Web attribute to Sun (*.au) format list.
	Added transparent support for Microsoft's Audio Compression
	  Manager allowing wave files to be compressed using a number
	  of different algorithms.
	Added multithreading to recording and playback to eliminate gaps.
	Added new recording options to Device Controls Setup: countdown
	  timer, level/threshold controlled recording, and looping.
	Added configurable frame rate for Device Controls displays.
	Redirected CD Player command to Windows CD Player.
	Added Volume Control to Tool menu.
	Added Ctrl+F9 and Ctrl+F8 recording keystroke.
	Added coordinates to status bar when zoomed in 1:1.
	Added "proportional" scroll bars to Sound windows to show a
	  closer relationship to the Overview bar.
	"New Sound" settings now saved in configuration file.
	Stopped entire view from being displayed after edit/effect.
	Added code to automatically copy/update expressions and presets
	  files.
	Fixed bugs: File | Close, Device Controls hidden by task bar,
	  Undo disable, Evaluator overflow, Input buffer size, etc.


v3.03
-----
	Added Colours to Options menu.
	Added frame times to status bar.
	Added Playback buffer setting to Device Controls setup.
	Improved CD controls.
	Added support for A-Law in AU format.
	Update on-line help.
	Fixed bugs: AU, AIFC, and stereo conversions, View menu,
	  Pan Y value, Save as dialog keys, playback, Doppler, etc.

v3.01 to v3.02:
---------------
	Added Start and Finish to View menu.
	Added Paste at command to Edit menu.
	Added Triple buffering and Unselected to Device Setup.
	Changed Intro/end to Intro/loop/end.
	Added inject to CD Player, when supported.
	Fixed bugs: monitor/deflash, extended character filenames,
	  paste noise, AIF and WAV file handling, playback problems,
	  save status, paste fpe, etc.

v3.00:
------
	Version 3.00 is almost a complete rewrite of the code using
	  Borland OWL 2.0 and improved C++ object oriented constructs.
	Developed with a 32-bit future in mind.
	Redesigned file handling to allow on-the-fly conversions, huge
	  file support, transparent RAM or hard disk storage, flash, and
	  an unlimited number of opened files.
	Added File options to configure storage, flash, and directories.
	Added directory selection dialog.
	Added a file history to File menu.
	Combined Export with Save as and added more file types and
	  attributes.
	Added support for Apple AFC & AIF, A-Law, and WAV A-Law.
	Added A-Law and IEEE double to Raw File Format dialog.
	Added new effects: distortion, doppler, noise gate, user defined
	  filter, and flange.
	Added fine tune to transpose.
	Removed interpolate from Resample (always interpolates).
	Improved status report during processing to allow user to
	  switch to another application.
	Improved Shape boxes using a special technique to preserve
	  the background without affecting the foreground line, allowing
	  solid grids and numbered axis to be added.
	Added presets to save shapes and effects parameters in gwpreset.ini.
	Redesigned Device Controls window and made it resizable.
	Moved audio device selection to Device Setup dialog.
	Implemented a virtual audio device for realtime rewind and
	  fast forward playback, automatic 16-bit to 8-bit conversion,
	  and automatic resampling.
	Added realtime log spectrum bar graph, spectrogram, and
	  LED meters.
	Added click-to-change feature on oscilloscopes.
	Added automatic volume updating when another program changes
	  the device volume.
	Added configurable play button: selection, all, intro/end,
	  and looping.
	Replaced record looping with monitor.
	Added configurable recording buffer size.
	Made working buttons and LEDs on minimized Device Controls window.
	Allowed Device Controls window to be closed to recover screen space.
	Added a second Tool Bar for quick access to effects.
	Created dozens of new bitmapped buttons.
	Modified status bars to have configurable time and range displays
	  and to show Menu and Tool Bar hints.
	Removed AUX volume (should use sound card's mixer instead).
	Added Window options to configure placement and size of Main window
	  and Sound windows.
	Improved direct editing with the mouse to prevent skipping.
	Made start/finish markers and play position line solid.
	Made start/finish marker movable in Overview bar.
	Used different graphing algorithm to make sound graphs appear
	  cleaner and more accurate.
	Added graph cache to speed up redrawing of Sound windows.
	Added a background colour for the selection.
	Moved Settings options to File and Window options.
	Moved Editing options channel control to Edit menu.
	Improved Mix and Paste quality when editing across different
	  sampling rates.
	Implemented virtual clipboard to allow copying of large files.
	Added Tools menu.
	Changed Cue Points interface and added a Revise button.
	Changed Evaluator interface and code to support unlimited files.
	Added CD player with play, pause, stop, track up, track down,
	  eject, track scroll bar, and position gauge controls.
	Revised and improved on-line help.
	Created numerous presets in gwpreset.ini.
	Fixed bugs: ADPCM, evaluator parser.


v2.12 to v2.14:
---------------
	Minor bug fixes: division by zero, sun export, etc.

v2.12F:
-------
	Licensed French commercial version.

v2.11:
------
	Updated BWCC.DLL.
	Fixed bug: Maximize window on startup.

v2.10:
------
	New effects: offset and transpose.
	Renamed cross-fade to interpolate.
	Added cue points and zoom any.
	Changed undo to ask whether to continue when disk is full.
	Enhanced VOC file support (8-bit/16-bit/mu-law mono/stereo).
	Added support for 12-bit raw files.
	Added file name to Raw File Format dialog.
	Improved evaluator and added an expression file so expressions
	  can be organized and saved.
	Added system menu to Device Controls window.
	Fixed bugs: Saved window coordinates, initial volume,
	  Alt+F4, Speed text, etc.

v2.01
------
	Licensed commercial version.

v2.00:
------
	New effects: cross-fade, resample, mechanize, pan, volume shaping,
	  fade in, echo reverb, and 4 filters.
	Added trim to editing.
	More view commands: user, 20:1, 5:1, 1:10, 1:100.
	Enhanced Device Controls window: dual oscilloscopes, setup dialog.
	Setup for Device Controls: graph type, controls, looping,
	  graph length, positioning, other.
	New tool bar buttons: Trim, User, Chan, Undo.
	Added second information bar for block info.
	Added Spectrum analyzer (easier said than done).
	Added direct editing with the mouse.
	Improved keyboard support.
	Added Export command.
	Added file support for ADPCM, MULAW, unsigned 16-bit, byte
	  swap, Matlab.
	Added progress indicator in the information bar.
	Changed the expression evaluator, added edit buttons and "f" variable.
	Fixed bugs: Stereo echo, balance, PC Tools loading, refresh, etc.

v1.00:
------
	First release.  Includes: mono/stereo, 8/16 bit, mu-law, independent
	  channel editing, up to 5 sound windows, detached Scope and
	  Controls window, tool bar, information (attributes) bar, MDI,
	  expression evaluator, and several effects.

